# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The goals of this app required allowing users to track their weight. The requirements of this app include: allowing users to log their current weights as well as see or delete records of previous weights, set their goal weight, and the ability to be sent notifications whenever their goal weight is reached. This app is designed to give users a simple, yet effective way of keeping track of their weight and reaching their goals.
# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
Users would need to create an account in order to save records of their weight, so a login/create account screen was needed as well as a database to store user information. The main screen serves as a simple way for users to monitor their weight while also keeping all the required functions present. The sms notifications screen made sure that users could easily enable or disable notifications, and regardless of what the user chooses the app will work as intended. The goal was to provide an app that allowed users to keep track of their weight without the need of extra features. The UI was designed with simplicity in mind so any user could use it.
# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
I first analyzed all the requirements of the app and determined what features and screens would be needed. Once I had fully understood the requirements, I moved onto the design stage, drawing what the app should look like with each screen. Once I was satisfied I moved onto the coding stage. I worked on the UI first as it was the easiest to build, especially with the drawn design. If I felt I needed to make any changes to the UI I simply only had to alter coordinates, which does not take much time to do. Planning and designing my app helps tremendously with the coding stage as I will not have to spend as much time experimenting with UI design, button placement, or figuring out how my app or project should function.
# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
Once I finished one screen I tested its functionality before moving onto the next screen. For example, before doing any work with the main screen I fully tested the login/create account screen to ensure it was fully functional.This made sure I didn't have to retrace my steps as I progressed through building my app.
# Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
When working on the main screen, I realized the UI was not laid out in a way that ensured full functionality, and so I had to change the design a little bit. My original sketch had the buttons above the table with the logged weights, however there wasn't enough room. So I had to change my approach in order to ensure my app functioned as required and had all required buttons.
# In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I think my uses of classes and keeping my code organized was demonstrated very well in my app. I've learned that dedicating classes to specific functions makes code a lot easier to debug and troubleshoot. My display of clean, easy to maintain code is what is most apparent with this app.
